Documentation for the read replicas (#372)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/running-saleor/read-replicas.mdx

---
title: Database read replicas
---

> Database read replica is a read-only copy of the primary database. Replica should reflect changes in the primary database as fast as possible. This feature allows Saleor to offload the primary database by moving read-only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Database read replica is a read-only copy of the primary database. Replica should reflect changes in the primary database as fast as possible. This feature allows Saleor to offload the primary database by moving the read-only traffic to a separate database.
```

> traffic to a separate database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

:::note
Asynchronous replication is not part of Saleor Core. It should be configured separately depending on the environment.
:::
```mermaid
graph LR
  C((Saleor Core)) ---|Read/Write| P[(Primary database)]
  C ---|Read| R[(Read replica)]
  P --->|Asynchronous replication| R
```

## How to configure
Django allows using [multiple databases.](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/multi-db/)

> To start using read replica in Saleor set `DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME` in `settings.py` and specify this connection in `DATABASES`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start using read replica in Saleor, set `DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME` in `settings.py` and specify this connection in `DATABASES`.
```

#### Example config:
```python
# settings.py

PRIMARY_DB_URL = "postgres://saleor:saleor@localhost:5432/saleor"
REPLICA_DB_URL = "postgres://saleor:saleor@localhost-replica:5433/saleor"

DATABASE_CONNECTION_DEFAULT_NAME = "default"
DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME = "replica"

DATABASES = {
    DATABASE_CONNECTION_DEFAULT_NAME: dj_database_url.config(
        default=PRIMARY_DB_URL conn_max_age=600
    ),
    DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME: dj_database_url.config(
        default=REPLICA_DB_URL, conn_max_age=600,
    ),
}
```

## How to use replica in code

> By default Saleor always uses the primary database. To specify which connection to use in ORM, use [the `using` queryset method](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/multi-db/#manually-selecting-a-database).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saleor always uses the primary database by default. To specify which connection to use in ORM, use [the `using` queryset method](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/multi-db/#manually-selecting-a-database).
```

> By default Saleor always uses the primary database. To specify which connection to use in ORM, use [the `using` queryset method.](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/multi-db/#manually-selecting-a-database)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default Saleor always uses the primary database. To specify which connection to use in ORM, use [the `using` queryset method](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/multi-db/#manually-selecting-a-database).
```

#### Example
```python
# To fetch all products from the primary database use:

from django.conf import settings

Products.objects.all()

Products.objects.using(settings.DATABASE_CONNECTION_DEFAULT_NAME).all()

# To fetch all products from the read replica use:

from django.conf import settings

Products.objects.using(settings.DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME).all()
```

## How to use read replicas in dataloaders

Dataloaders are used to efficiently load data from the database in GraphQL query resolvers. To enable using read replicas in dataloaders, use the
`database_connection_name` property, which is included in subclasses of the base `DataLoader` class:

```python
 Product.objects.using(self.database_connection_name).in_bulk(keys)
```

:::note
Mutations should always use data from the primary database to ensure that they operate on the newest data.
:::

## How to test it in a local machine

> To simulate a read replica on the local machine, use the second connection to the primary database with the read-only user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simulate a read replica on a local machine, use a second connection to the primary database with the read-only user.
```

#### 1. Add a read-only user in your database:
```sql
CREATE USER saleor_read_only WITH PASSWORD 'saleor';
GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE saleor TO saleor_read_only;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO saleor_read_only;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO saleor_read_only;
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA public GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO saleor_read_only;
```
:::note

> Saleor-platform creates read-only user by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saleor-platform creates a read-only user by default.
```

traffic to a separate database.
:::note
Asynchronous replication is not part of Saleor Core. It's should be configured separately depending on the environment.
:::
```mermaid
graph LR
  C((Saleor Core)) ---|Read/Write| P[(Primary database)]
  C ---|Read| R[(Read replica)]
  P --->|Asynchronous replication| R
```

## How to configure
Django allows using [multiple databases.](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/multi-db/)
To start using read replica in Saleor we should set `DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME` in `settings.py` and specify this connection in `DATABASES`.

### Example config:
:::note
Primary database: postgres://saleor:saleor@localhost:5432/saleor

Read replica: postgres://saleor:saleor@localhost:5433/saleor
:::

In this case, we should set `DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME` to `replica`.

In `DATABASES` we should add new entry:
`DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME: dj_database_url.config(default="postgres://saleor:saleor@localhost:5433/saleor",conn_max_age=600)`,

## How to use replica in code

By default Saleor code always use the primary database.

> To specify which connection should be used by ORM we use [`using` on queryset.](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/multi-db/#manually-selecting-a-database)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To specify which connection to use in ORM, use the [`using` queryset method.](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/multi-db/#manually-selecting-a-database)
```

> **Example**
>

> > To fetch all products from the primary database we could use:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> To fetch all products from the primary database use:
```

>
> - Products.objects.all()
> - Products.objects.using(DATABASE_CONNECTION_DEFAULT_NAME).all()
>

> > To fetch all products from the read replica we could use:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> To fetch all products from the read replica use:
```

>
> - Products.objects.using(DATABASE_CONNECTION_REPLICA_NAME).all()

:::note

> Do not forget about importing the proper connection name from settings.

Reviewer 3: We could also add this import in the snippets above so it is clear where do these values come from.

:::

### How to use read replicas in dataloaders

Dataloaders could be used to make responses for mutations and queries. Mutations should always return data from the primary database to show real-time data as a result of mutation. To handle this situation we introduce

> `database_connection_name` as a part of the base `Dataloader` class. All dataloaders ORM queries should use this variable as connection name
> > **Example**
> >
> >
> > Product.objects.using(self.database_connection_name).in_bulk(keys)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`database_connection_name` as a part of the base `Dataloader` class. All dataloaders ORM queries should use this variable as connection name, for example:
```python
    Product.objects.using(self.database_connection_name).in_bulk(keys)
```

## How to test it in a local machine

> To simulate read replica on the local machine we could use the second connection to the primary database with the read-only user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To simulate a read replica on the local machine, use the second connection to the primary database with the read-only user.
```

> To setup it we should add read-only user to database

Reviewer 3: 1. Add a read-only user in your database:
```
SQL example to create the user
```
If you're using the [saleor-platform](link), you will have a read-only user created automatically.

2. Add the following configuration in `settings.py`:

```
full example from settings.py
```
